This is Version 1.2.1 of the Vienna RNA Package.
------------------------------------------------
See the CHANGES file for differences to version 1.2.

The Vienna RNA packages consists of a few stand alone programs and a 
library that you can link your own programs with. The package allows you to

- predict minimum free energy secondary structures
- calculate the partition function for the ensemble of structures
- predict melting curves
- search for sequences folding into a given structure
- compare secondary structures including pairwise alignment.

There is also a set of programs for analysing sequence and distance
data using split decomposition, statistical geometry, and cluster methods.
This part of the package has not yet been tested as extensively.

Please read the copyright notice in the file COPYING.

The package is known to compile under
SunOS 4.1, AIX 3.2, hpux8 and hpux9, IRIX 4.05 and IRIX 5, DEC OSF/1 and linux.
Porting to other UN*X flavours should present no problems.
You need a compiler that understands ANSI C. See the INSTALL file for details.

The following executables are provided:
RNAfold		predict secondary structures
RNAeval		evaluate energy for given sequence and structure
RNAheat		calculate melting curves
RNAdistance	compare secondary structures
RNApdist	compare ensembles of secondary structures
RNAinverse	find sequences folding into given structures
AnalyseSeqs	analyse sequence data
AnalyseDists	analyse distance matrices

All executables read from and write to stdout and use command line
switches rather than menus to be easily usable in pipes.

For more detailed information see the man pages.

We have included a patched version of D.G. Gilbert's readseq program
for those who often process sequence files from databanks. See the
the documentation in that directory for details.

NEWS
-------
This version features new energy parameters as described in Walter et.al
(1994). In addition, energy parameters can now be read from file and
therefore easily modified. The standard energy set can be found in the file 
default.par. Many bugs have been fixed and the new version should need less 
memory, give better error messages and (hopefully) produce fewer core dumps. 
Almost all static arrays have been removed, all programs should work for 
sequences up to a length of about 32700 (if you have lots of memory that is). 
RNAeval now supports a logrithmic energy function for multi-loops in addition 
to the usual linear one.

Some useful utililities can be found in the Utils directory.

If you're a commercial user and find these programs useful, please consider
supporting further developments with a donation.

The most recent source code and documentation is available on the web at
http://www.tbi.univie.ac.at/~ivo/RNA/
If you need help or have any questions send email to
Ivo.Hofacker@tbi.univie.ac.at

